consequently the court is of view that
Israel has not sufficiently addressed
and dispelled the concerns raised by its
military offensive in
Rafa in light of the consideration set
out in the preceding sections of the
order and taking account of the
provisional measures indicated in its
orders of January 26
2024 and March 28 2024
the court finds that the current
situation arising from Israel's military
offensive in Rafa entails a further risk
of irreparable prejudice to the
plausible rights claimed by South Africa
and that there is urgency in the sense
that there exists a real and imminent
risk that such Prejudice will be caused
before the Court gives its final
decision the court Court concludes on
the basis of the uper mentioned
considerations that the circumstances of
the case required to modify its decision
set out in its order of March 28
2024 the court recalls that in
accordance with article 75 paragraph 2
of its rules when a request for the
indication of provision measures has
been made it has the power under its
statute to indicate measures
that are not in whole or in part other
than those
requested in the present case having
considered the terms of the provisional
measures requested by South Africa and
the circumstances of the
case the court found that the measures
to be indicated need not be identical to
those
requested the court considered that in
Conformity with obligations under the
genocide convention Israel must
immediately hold its military offens and
any other action in the Rafa
Governor which may inflict on the
Palestinian group in Gaza conditions of
life that could bring about its physical
destruction in whole or in
part the court recalls that it is that
in its order of January 26
2024 it ordered Israel inter area to I
quote take effective measures to prevent
the destruction and ensure the
preservation of evidence related to
allegations of Acts within the scope of
article two and article three of the
genocide convention end of
quote in the present
circumstances the court is also of the
view that in order to preserve evidence
related to allegations of Acts falling
within the scope of article two and
article three of the genocide convention
Israel must take effective measures to
ensure the unimpeded access to the Gaza
Strip of any Commission of inquiry fact
finding Mission or other investigative
body mandated by competent organs of the
United Nations to investigate
allegations of
genocide the court also considers that
the catastrophic situation in
Gaza confirmed the need for the
immediate and effective implementation
of the measures indicated in its orders
of January 26 2024 and March 28th
2024 which are applicable throughout the
Gaza Strip including in
Rafa in these circumstances the court
finds it necessary to reaffirm the
measures indicated in those
orders in so doing the the court wishes
to emphasize that the measure indicated
in paragraph
512a of its order of March 28
2024 requiring I quote the unhindered
provision at scale by all concerned of
urgently needed basic services and
humanitarian assistance and of course
necess states that the respondent
maintain open land Crossing points and
in particular the Rafa Crossing
in view of the specific provisional
measures it has decided to indicate the
court considered that Israel must submit
a report to the court on all measures
taken to give effect to this order
within one month from the date of this
order the report so provided will then
be communicated to South Africa which
shall be given the opportunity to submit
to the court its commands thereon
the court recalls that its orders on
provisional measures under article 41 of
the statute have binding effect and thus
create International legal obligations
for any party to whom the provisional
measures are
addressed the court underlined that the
present order is without prejudice to
any findings concerning the respondent's
compliance with the orders of January 26
2024 and March 28
2024 in its orders of January 26 2024
and March 28th
2024 the court expressed its grave
concern over the fate of the hostages
abducted during the attacks in Israel on
October 7 2023 and H since then by Hamas
and other armed group and called for
their immediate and unconditional
release
the court finds it deeply troubling that
many of these hostages remain in
captivity and reiterate its SC for their
immediate and unconditional
release I shall Now read out the
operative part of the order for these
reasons the court by 13 vots to
two reaffirms the provisional measures
indicated in its orders of 26 January
2024 and March 28th
2024 which should be immediately and
effectively
implemented in favor president Salam
judges Abraham
YF bandari iwasawa N charwell brown
Gomez Roo Cleveland oresco CL
against vice president subu judge adok
Barak